# Tackling-Cancellation-and-Boosting-Occupancy-Rates-with-Predictive-Modeling
###  Introduction
In this pilot study, we have used a publicly available real-world dataset[1] of two hotels in Portugal: City Hotel and Resort Hotel. We propose a decision support system that involves 1) modeling hotel data based on machine learning techniques to produce probability estimations 2) leverage these estimations through the expected value (revenue) framework for an overbooking limit that optimizes for revenue across underbooked and overbooked scenarios.
In this project, we tackle a revenue management issue prevalent across many businesses, particularly within the hospitality industry, that arises from the preponderance of no-shows and last-minute cancellations. Hotels, in particular, have used various measures in the past to mitigate risk through several incentive and disincentive-based methods. Particularly, incentive methods can involve providing several attractive offers to customers in order to increase the likelihood of their honoring a booking; disincentive methods can be restrictive in nature and have other negative effects for the business. However, we found that the former involves causal analysis of different offers to customers and its effect on no-shows, while the latter must include a study of non-refund policies on a business’ overall demand and competitiveness in the market to account for negative consequences. There is a third measure that businesses can, and do, leverage to mitigate loss of revenue and that is through: overbooking. Currently, most businesses already collect the data that is needed for such a study i.e., information on bookings made with their hotel. This makes it perfect for a pilot study by a data science team because it does not require engineering infrastructure for new sources of data to begin.
